---
Title: "Root foraging in the leguminous zinc hyperaccumulator Crotalaria novae-hollandiae from Queensland, Australia"
Collection: publications
Category: manuscripts
Link: /publication/2023-02-25-Root-Foraging-by-Hyperaccumulator-Plants
Excerpt: 'Root foraging by hyperaccumulator plants in response to patchily distributed metals has been observed in several obligate hyperaccumulators, but it is not known if facultative hyperaccumulators respond similarly. Aims This study investigated the root growth behaviour in the leguminous zinc (Zn) hyperaccumulator Crotalaria novae-hollandiae compared to the non-accumulating C. cunninghamii in response to localized soil Zn enrichment in the soil to observe foraging vs avoidance responses. Methods We conducted rhizotron experiments in which we exposed the Crotalaria species pair to juxtaposed treatments, which were either homogenous (each half of the treatments containing same Zn concentrations) or heterogenous (different Zn concentrations in each half of the treatments). The Zn concentrations were 0 µg Zn g-1 (control), 2000 µg Zn g-1 and 5000 µg Zn g-1 in the form of zinc carbonate). Key results We found that none of the treatments had significantly different rooting density and root biomass, regardless of the Crotalaria species. This finding contrasts with increased root proliferation in Zn-rich patches found for other obligate hyperaccumulator species. Conclusions & Implications The no-preference root response towards Zn in Crotalaria may partly explain the facultative hyperaccumulation mechanism displayed by these species. This root response towards Zn may ultimately affect Zn phytoextraction efficacy when utilising Crotalaria species in a heterogenous Zn soil substrate. These findings highlight the need for rhizosphere investigations prior to field phytoextraction applications.'
Date: 25 Feb 2023
Journal: 'Australian Journal of Botany'
URL: 'https://www.researchgate.net/publication/369643689_Root_foraging_in_the_leguminous_zinc_hyperaccumulator_Crotalaria_novae-hollandiae_from_Queensland_Australia'
Citation: 'Chen, F., Nkrumah, P.N., Tang, R.H. and van der Ent, A., 2023. Root foraging in the leguminous zinc hyperaccumulator Crotalaria novae-hollandiae from Queensland, Australia. Australian Journal of Botany, 71(4), pp.167-174.'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
