---
title: "Soil-plant relationships of metallophytes of the zinc-lead-copper Dugald River gossan, Queensland, Australia"
collection: publications
category: conferences
link: /publications/2024-02-17-Soil-Plant-Relationships-of-Metallophytes
excerpt: 'Metallophytes are plants that can tolerate extreme metal concentrations in the soil in which they grow. The Dugald River zinc (Zn)-lead (Pb) gossan in Queensland (Australia) is one of the largest metal deposits in the world with a surface gossan formed after weathering over millions of years. It hosts a range of metallophytes which may have potential to be used in mine site rehabilitation. This study aimed to investigate the soil-plant relationships of metallophytes on the Dugald River gossan. Plant samples and associated rooting soil samples were collected across the gossan and then analysed for metal concentrations. Soil-plant metal relationships were subsequently explored to characterise the species in relation to metal uptake behaviour. The metallophyte grass, Eriachne mucronata, dominated the gossan, yet there appeared to be no direct relationship between the occurrence of metallophytes and prevailing soil metal concentrations. Using transformation-based redundancy analysis (tb-RDA), two groups of metals, copper (Cu) and Zn-Cadmium (Cd), have been identified to be the primary metals driving species distribution. Crotalaria novae-hollandiae, was able to accumulate high concentrations of each of these metals in its leaves, with up to 16,200 mg Zn kg−1, 545 mg Cu kg−1 and 170 mg Cd kg−1. Soil metal concentrations alone are not suitable indications for metallophyte distribution or composition in a polymetallic environment. Crotalaria novae-hollandiae can tolerate high concentrations of metals and accumulate Zn-Cu-Cd above the respective hyperaccumulation thresholds; the species can be described for the first time as a strong polymetallic indicator-type metallophyte.'
date: 2024-02-17
journal: 'Plant and Soil'
url: 'https://www.researchgate.net/publication/356174016_Soil-plant_relationships_of_metallophytes_of_the_zinc-lead-copper_Dugald_River_gossan_Queensland_Australia'
citation: 'Tang, R.H., Erskine, P.D., Nkrumah, P.N., Echevarria, G. and van Der Ent, A., 2022. Soil-plant relationships of metallophytes of the zinc-lead-copper Dugald River gossan, Queensland, Australia. Plant and Soil, 471(1), pp.227-245.'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
